# 04-21-2022

## Goals
<!-- What we expect to get from the day -->
- Private functions.
- Pipe operator.
- Modules attributes.
- Heads and tails of a list.
- Lists and recursion.
- Phoenix introduction.

## Resources
<!-- How are we going to achieve it -->
- [book] Programming Elixir >= 1.6
- [book] Programming Phoenix >= 1.4

## Outcomes
<!-- What we actually got -->

## Notes
<!-- Relevant notes to the day's progress -->

### Choosing between maps, structs and keyword lists

- Do I want to pattern-match against the contents (for example: matching a dictionary has the key of `:name` somewhere in it)? _Use a `map`_.

- Will I want more than one entry with the same key? _Use the `Keyword` module_.

- Do I need to guarantee the elements are ordered? _Use the `Keyword` module_.

- Do I have a fixed set of fields? _Use a `struct`_.

- Otherwise, if you've reached this point: _Use a `map`_.

### Phoenix: Request Flow

1. The endpoint has functions that happen for every request.
2. The connection goes through a named pipeline, which has common functions for each major type of request.
3. The controller invokes the model and renders a template through a view.

### Phoenix: Context

A context in Phoenix is nothing more than a module that groups functions with a shared purpose. For example, our application will need to read, modify, and delete user accounts, We will strive to keep all of this code in a single module.

### Phoenix: Plugs

> Plugs are functions.
> Your web applications are pipelines of plugs.

## Next steps
<!-- What we will be working on tomorrow -->

## Resources worth checking out
<!-- Other resources we could benefit from -->
