# 04-27-2022

## Goals
<!-- What we expect to get from the day -->
- Get to know the `Stream` module.
- The Collectable protocol.
- Comprehensions.

## Resources
<!-- How are we going to achieve it -->
- [book] Programming Elixir 1.6.
- [Elixir School](https://elixirschool.com/en/).

## Outcomes
<!-- What we actually got -->

- Working with keyword lists.
- Pattern matching and processing strings.
- Use of comprehensions.
- Familiarize with `Streams`.

## Notes
<!-- Relevant notes to the day's progress -->

### Elixir: Control Flow

_Elixir_ code tries to be declarative, not imperative.

In _Elixir_ we write lots of small functions, and a combination of guard clauses and pattern matching of parameters replaces most of the control flow seen in other languages.

### Elixir: Stream

`Streams` in _elixir_ are functions for creating and composing streams.

`Streams` are composable, lazy enumerable. Any enumerable that generates elements one by one during enumeration is called a stream.

- `Stream.cycle`: takes an enumerable and returns an infinite stream containing that enumerable's elements. When it gets to the end, it repeats from the beginning.

- `Stream.repeatedly`: takes a function and invokes it each time a new value is wanted.

- `Stream.iterate(start_value, next_fun)`: generates an infinite stream. The first value is `start_value`. The next value is generated by applying `next_fun` to this value. This continues for as long as the stream is being used.

- `Stream.unfold`: `Stream.unfold` is related to `Stream.iterate`, but now you can be more explicit both about the values output to the stream and about the values passed to the next iteration. It is a general way of creating a potentially infinite stream of values where each value is some function of the previous state.

> consider using a stream when you want to defer processing until you need the data, and when you need to deal with large number of things without necessarily generating them all at once.

#### Relevant Links

- [Elixir Stream: Docs](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Stream.html).

## Next steps
<!-- What we will be working on tomorrow -->

## Resources worth checking out
<!-- Other resources we could benefit from -->
