# 04-26-2022

## Goals
<!-- What we expect to get from the day -->

- Familiarize with _Ecto_'s API.
- Testing MVC.
- Familiarize with testing with _ExUnit_.

## Resources
<!-- How are we going to achieve it -->
- [book] Programming Phoenix >= 1.4
- [book] Programming Elixir > 1.6

## Outcomes
<!-- What we actually got -->

- Seeding data in _Phoenix_ with _Ecto_.
- _Ecto_'s query API.
- _Ecto_'s fragments.
- Relationships in _Ecto_.

## Notes
<!-- Relevant notes to the day's progress -->

### Ecto: Terminology

- _Constraint_: An explicit database constraint. This might be an uniqueness constraint on an index, or an integrity constraint between primary and foreign keys.
- _Constraint error_: The `Ecto.ConstraintError`. This happens when _Ecto_ identifies a constraint problem, such as trying to insert a record without specifying a required key.
- _Changeset constraint_: A constraint annotation added to the changeset that allows _Ecto_ to convert constraints errors into changeset error messages.
- _Changeset error messages_: Human-readable error messages.

### Ecto: Changeset constraints

> Constraint changeset functions are useful when the constraint being mapped is triggered by external data, often as part of the user
> request. Using changeset constraint **only makes sense if the error message can be something the user can take action on**.

### Testing Principles

- Fast: We're going to make sure our tests run quickly and can run concurrently whenever possible.
- Isolated: We want to have the right level of isolation in our tests. Tests that are too isolated won't have enough context to be useful. Test that aren't isolated enough will be difficult to understand and maintain.
- DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself): We want to eliminate unnecessary repetition in our tests.
- Repeatable: We want the same test on the same code to always yield the same result.

### Testing Terminology

- _Unit test_: Exercises a function for one layer of an application.
- _Integration testing_: Focuses on the way different layers of an application fit together.

### ExUnit

_ExUnit_ has three main macros:

1. The `setup` macro specifies some setup code that runs once before each test.
2. The `test` macro defines a single isolated test.
3. The `assert` macro specifies something we believe to be true or false about our code.

## Next steps
<!-- What we will be working on tomorrow -->

## Resources worth checking out
<!-- Other resources we could benefit from -->
